specialist bird handler Lloyd buck is
going to reveal the secret with a very
short and simple flight yeah I'll try
and get out of why okay
[Music]
by filming smudge in slow motion we can
see how pigeons have an explosive
takeoff able to fly vertically upwards
for more than 20 meters this exceptional
flying ability is down to their complex
physiology so when they do their
vertical takeoff what's going on well I
said my team to watch isn't it and when
you see it slow down you get more of an
idea what's happening and you see she's
putting all of her energy to that one
purpose to clear the ground isn't it she
can go up as fast as she possibly can
yeah
this slow you can see how smudge first
bends her knees then pushes off the
ground whilst flinging her wings above
her head this powerful jump allows her
to clear the ground enough to make a
complete downward stroke without her
wings touching the floor
she can accelerate from zero to a
hundred kilometres an hour around two
seconds to see how pigeons are such
skilled fliers we need to take a closer
look at their bones I thought it'd be
nice to have a real good comparison
between the live bird and on my Sorbonne
the first thing that sticks out is this
massive keel quite big for a bird that
size I've never seen a pigeon skeleton
before it's at that rate I really used
to see no it was much smudge here I
think I first looked at it I thought
that's not quite right is it but then
actually when you look at smells look
yeah it's right down there yeah really
see it and there are so many adaptations
that just points this being an absolute
powerhouse of muscle and flight I mean
if you look at the bones in the upper
arm here the humerus and really short
have a nut short stubby stocky little
bone there really allows that power
again even that one bone says this is a
very strong bird incredible brilliant
you can see these massive legs they just
keep going up yeah they're really strong
only yeah you can tell this bird is one
lever flying through yeah
[Music]